All right.
Welcome back.
In the last section we have installed next year and we got our first template.
In this section, we're going to install Tailwind CSS and add its dependencies to work with the next
year's website.
The first thing we need to do is to go to the 12 CSS website so we can go to Google and we search for
12 and CSS.
In the search result, we go to the website with the URL 12 and see dot com.
And here.
You can see the table and see this website.
It's documentation.
And how to get started.
So we just click on the get started.
And install it here.
Inside the installation tab, we go to the framework guide.
So the framework guide is when you want to just install the services on frameworks like.
React or next years and etc..
So we click on Framework Guide, and here we click on next.
Yes.
Next.
JJ's the.
So we see it has.
Few steps for installation of Taleban CSIS, which next year.
First, we need to create our projects.
This step is already done with us because we have already installed next year.
The second step is to install Taleban CSIS.
So there are two commands we need to run inside the terminal.
The first one is going to install Taleban.
CSIS.
Host Cease and order prefecture.
So we need to copy this.
I copy it and come back to the Visual Studio code.
I'm going to paste it inside the Visual Studio code.
And I press enter.
So this is going to install these three packages.
And the installation process is very fast because when says.
Is a very small package, actually, so.
So let's this one finish.
Until this one finish, we come back and copy the next line, which is going to initialize the tail
and CSS and it's going to add a file called tailwind config, which we need in the next step.
To compete complete.
So we go back to Visual City Code.
The installation process is almost done.
So.
Let's decrease the size of the screen so you can see everything in better form.
So the installation process is completed.
Let's paste the.
The next code, which is for the next initialization of the tail and CSS.
So I'm going to press enter.
This is going to initialize tail and CSS and this is going to add some files here.
So now we have two extra files.
One is post assistant conflict dodgers and one is Telvin.
That conflict JS.
So in the third step of the Tailwind CSS installation, we need to configure our template path.
So as we are using CRC folder, we need to scan this folder.
With all the files with the extension, JZ, ts, JZ, X, and BTS x.
So this, this is going to do that.
So we're going to copy all these things and we come back to Visual Studio Code and we go to Taylor Configs.
Okay.
So I'm going to delete all of them.
I'm going to paste this new code.
And actually, we don't need these three of them because we are using CSC directory.
We can just delete these three and everything goes inside the CRC folder for us.
So let's see the next step.
The next step is to add the Tailwind directives to our CSS.
And if you remember from the last section, we have deleted everything inside the globals CSS.
Now we need to fill this file with these three lines of code.
So we copy these three lines of code.
We come back to Visual Studio code, we go to Globals that CSS file here on the left inside the app
directory.
And we're going to paste it here.
And this is going to create the base codes, the components and utilities.
And the last step is to just run our website so that this is completed for us.
So let's start the our application using NPN run diff.
So this is going to start our server inside the local host 3000 again.
And now this is actually created our post files.
As well so when we created and initialized and CSS.
Now as you can see, the server is started at this URL and the warning is we have enabled experimental
features for the app directory.
So as this is a better so they're warning us this, maybe there will be some changes.
So and also ask us to give us some feedback.
I already gave him some feedback because there are some mistakes in.
This version.
So if you see something and you just give them some feedback, you can go to this URL and give them
some feedback.
So they're going to use it to release the final version of next GS 30.
So now we go to the browser.
We don't need the 12 and CSS anymore so we can close this tab.
And this is our website.
You can see the styles is just normal now, but if you refresh the page, we should see the 12 and CSS
styling in our website instead of just the normal CSS.
Here.
So now the.
Servers is run.
Now we can see if I zoom here.
You can see that the the font is changed and this font is related to Telvin.
So let's let's bring this one to the right side and the website to the left side.
So I'm going to show you some CSS, some Tailwind CSS basics so you can apply, for example, in pages
X.
Now we have the whole.
So simply for CSS, we just add a class name here.
For example, if you want to change the color of the text, you just say text.
And add a dash, for example, you just change it to the red color.
And this is going to suggest your different red colors.
So so if you wait a little bit or use contra space, this is going to load some suggestions for you.
For example, you can have a very light red color from 50 to the very dark red color, which is 900.
For example, I choose the 400.
This is going to change our website to our this home from black to red.
So this is going to take a while to be applied.
So.
Let's save this one.
And you see the change here.
If you don't see it, you can refresh the page.
Sometimes the auto save doesn't work, so you need to refresh it some.
So now you can see the text is red and also you can see the the classes is hide is hidden for me because
I'm using an extension which is going to hide the text.
Inside the tape.
Because when you when you use Tillman CSS, you probably add many classes here and this is going to
mess up your code.
So in this case, if I'm not using this class name, this is going to hide all the classes.
So let me show you which extension I used.
So let me stop this server.
And let me show you the extension I use for my work.
So you can use them or you can get the idea so you can open the extension section using contour shift
X.
So this is going to open this extensions.
And the extensions I'm using is this.
So the first extension is code is spell checker.
This is going to check your spelling mistakes.
This.
The second one is the GitHub copilot.
This is not a free extension.
You need to pay for the subscription.
It's $10 per month now.
And if you are a student and if you can show them your student card, you can get this extension for
free.
This is going to help you to fill up your.
Coding and suggest you some coding based on your previous coding and the coding available online.
So this is an AI tool which is going to help you to program faster.
So now the next extension is auto rename tag, which is going to change the closing tag based on your
opening tag.
Yeah.
This extension is called dark, low contrast teams.
These extensions we use.
We can use it for changing the theme of our VTS code.
And makes it kind of dark.
And it's good for your eyes.
The next extension is is seven React Redux reacts a snippet.
In React Native snippets.
This is going to help us to have some template.
For example, if you want to have a React functional component, you can use ref C to get a React functional
component.
So this is just a very helpful, especially when you are using React or next.
Yes, inline fold is the extension I mentioned earlier that is going to hide.
The classes inside the class name if they are.
Especially when you are using CSA, it's very helpful to keep your code clean.
The live server is the extension I use for the vanilla JavaScript.
You don't need to use it for the next year's projects.
The next one is prettier.
Prettier is going to help you to indent your codes and make them clean after saving.
As a format your code easily.
The last one is Tailwind CSS IntelliSense, which is going to help and suggest you some classes related
to tell 11 CSS for example when I write down earlier.
Texts read it suggested me the all the variants of the red colour.
So this is the extension that suggests that these things.
So that was it for the extensions and also that was it for the installation of the tailwind.
CSS.
Let's add this one to the GitHub and save this section in GitHub as well.
So instead of just using terminal, we can use contour shift.
Uh.
You can use the for example, you want to open the source control this source control.
So instead of using terminal, you can use contour shift G to open your source control.
And instead of typing, for example, get add dot, forget at all, you can just click here in this
plus icon.
This is going to add everything to get and then you can add a message here which is equal to get commit
dash m and the message is for now install.
Tailwind CSS.
And we just can click on this arrow icon and commit and push at the same time.
So this is going to upload everything to GitHub.
Now we can go to our GitHub here.
We go back to the comment sections.
Hmm.
And if you refresh the page, we should see the new commit, which is the install tailwind CSS.
And if you click here, we can review our code.
So as you can see inside the package JSON, we have installed some packages like auto prefix for post
CSS and tail and CSS.
And inside the post post the CSS conflict that is this file is created automatically by 11 CSS when
we initialize it.
And later we can add some plug ins to this file.
Then inside the global that CSIS, we have added these three lines of codes.
And inside the page that just I just added some.
I just want to show you the how to work with the classes.
So I've added the text with 400 to change the color of the.
Texts.
And also inside the Tailwind configs, we have added these codes which is going to scan everything inside
the S or C folder automatically and create the classes and CSS syntax based on the classes that we have
at inside these files.
Okay.
That was it for the installation of the Taleban CSS.
In the next section, we are going to create the header section of the projects.
We are going to create this part based on the final version that you can see now.
So see in the next section for the header part of the project.